Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
Tellerik create compelling app experiences
across any screen with the
Tellerik platform Telerx end to
end platform. Uniquely combines industry
leading UI tools with cloud
services to simplify the entire
app development cycle Tellerik offers
everything.net developers need to build
quality apps faster. Try it
free at tellerik.com/platform. That's tellerik.com/platform.
From Hanselman it's dot
com. It's Hansel minutes. Oh,
weekly discussion with web developer
and technologist Scott Hanselman. This
is Lawrence Ryan announcing show number
four 19. In this episode
of Hansel minutiae, Scott talks
with Richard Campbell. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman. This is another
episode of Hansel minutes, and
I'm talking with Richard Campbell, which
makes this Hansel minutiae 14,
13, 14. We lost count
at some point, I think
we may have recorded 11
twice. We've done a bunch
of these and I get
people ask me regularly when
we're going to do the
next one. That's interesting. So
your claim to fame is
no longer a, you know,
a decade on dotnet rocks
and thousands of shows and
tablets show it's. I've been
able to talk to you
a dozen times, and that's
the only thing that matters
to anyone. Exactly. That is
you're the occasional guest spot
on this show for not
being a guest. What would
I be? Thank you so
much for saving my career.
I really appreciate it. Oh
yeah, I know. And you
were, you were destitute before.
How jet lagged are you?
You know, it's funny. I'm
really not jet lagged and
my wife will not believe
me. I am not yet.
Like I got back from
New Zealand yesterday. Oh man. And,
but I try to explain,
as I've explained to everyone
who has insisted, it's always
wonderful when you're fully fine
and people are like, no,
you're jet lag. You're messed
up. No, no, I'm really
inside my own head. I'm
here. Just did an inventory
and I'm fine. New Zealand is,
is 20 hours ahead. Right.
But it's, that's great. Cause
it flips over the international
Dateline. So what I do
is I ignore the Dateline
part. I don't look, I
take my watch that I
have, that has no date.
I ignore the day completely.
And I just decide that
it's four hours behind. Right.
Which makes it like going
to Hawaii. So I have
no jet lag at all.
I am fresh and Footloose,
fancy, free feeling. Good. How
was the show? A code
mania is a really lovely
conference. So if anyone is
ever in or around Auckland,
New Zealand, I would encourage them
to check it out. It
was large. It was well-organized.
Everyone was, they had Leah
Varu from the W3C was
there and she did an
amazing job. Troy, He's a
great speaker. I'm always blown
away by her. She has
a amazing talk called mr.
Border radius. And the entire
talk is about this little
character. Who's like a little
cartoon man made entirely with
a, you know, border radiuses.
And it sounds like, how
could you do a talk
like that? But we had
her at angle brackets and
she did an hour on,
on just that one tag
and the power of this
one CSS tag. And I
wanted to watch another hour
after that. Wow. That's awesome.
It was amazing. So definitely
awesome. And we also saw
Troy hunt. He's the guy
who wrote the, a website
called world's greatest Azure demo.
Basically it's a one hour
demo of everything you can
do in Azure. So he's
doing my job for me.
He knows web security really
well too. We've had him
on dotnet rocks. Yeah. Yeah.
Definitely two people who know
their stuff backwards and forwards.
So it was cool. And
then I was at build
also for like a day
Day. You just tore in
and tore out. I was
there for the duration. Yeah.
I wanted to be there.
But the problem, the issue
was that I had been
invited to code mania a
year ago and before build
had been scheduled. And I
really, you know, I, I
don't want to cancel if
I tell someone I'm going
to be where I'm going
to be. Yeah. I know
that's a character thing right
there. And how far in
advance did you know about
bill? Because the outside world,
I mean, there's almost no
notice it just a, I
think I ended up learning
about it in like February
or early March. I mean,
it was pretty early. It's
that start early. That's really
late, you know, to book
Moscone, that's the sort of
thing you do a year
in advance. Well, yeah, I'm
sure that I'm sure that
someone knew, but I didn't
figure it out. I didn't
figure out that I had
double booked a conference until
January at the, at the
earliest, but I have to
go and check my emails,
but I, you know, I
guess the, you know, the,
Oh crap moment happened in
January somewhere, but the folks
at code mania were very
accommodating and they moved my
workshop. So I was able
to participate and me and
Scott Hunter did our, our talk
and it went okay. Yeah.
The lesser known Scott, who's
someone, I think the world
of a nearest, I can
tell anybody who actually works
with them find it's it
feels the same way to
mr. Amis Bridgewater is a
good man. Hunter is one
of the, one of the
lesser Scots. You haven't heard
that. That's like, they call
us that now. Well, cause
the big Scott's really big
these days, executive VP. Holy.
Yeah. He has like a
Prius waiting for him outside
of meetings so that he
can get to the next
meeting in time. Nice. Yeah.
They call it a triple
eight. It's a executive VPs
at that level. Literally have,
they don't have to wait
for a shuttle. They have
their, their, their people manage
their time. So they have
like a little electric car
that's sitting out front waiting
for them to drive from
nice thing. That's the perk
you get. There you go.
Yeah. It's pretty cool For
Ray, for being responsible for
almost development does at Microsoft.
Yeah. You do. You get
a bodyguard and I don't
know someone to hold your
laptop, but no, you get
a Prius. It's cool though.
A lot of stuff came
out of build. Yeah. Like
a great news. I, I
liked the keynotes and I
think it created a great
tone. It's like the first
time we see Sacha as
CEO is at build, I
just was so thrilled about
that. I could, could have
done without quite as long
a laundry list, even though
the laundry list was all
good news. It was long.
Yeah. He, He is kind
of a poise about him
that I, I must say
I like a lot. Yeah.
He's energetic without being over
the top and he's really
engaging. Like it felt good
listening to them. Yup. Yup.
I think that if there
was any question that he
was the, you know, was
he the right person for
the job? I think that
that got pretty much confirmed
that he's, he's a, he's
a good egg at, at
this conference. He's he's just
very poised. Yeah. Yeah. So
I like him. I'd just
like to see, I hope
next year he does a
more traditional keynote where just
give us an inspirational view
of where the company is
going and then let us
get to the side. Yeah,
yeah, exactly. Yeah. It, his,
his keynote made sense and
it set the tone and
setting the tone is I
think the primary job of
a CEO. Absolutely. Yeah, yeah.
Yeah. And we're starting some
interesting announcements. There's lots and
lots of open source stuff
going on. So that wind
JS is open sourced and
running on running cross platform,
which I think is confusing
to a lot of people.
Yeah. Because when jazz is
supposed to be wind. Yeah.
Well maybe, maybe it doesn't
mean windows. Maybe it means
winning. I don't know. But
you know, the, what I,
well I'm used me was
they did the wind JS
announcement first and then the
next day they did the
Roslyn announcement. Hmm. Yeah. So,
You know, when I, there
was a, I was sitting
at a table with some
folks just listening in and
the guy said, well, when
I saw the wind jazz
announcement, I thought, Oh good.
Microsoft's done with wind Jay.
Yeah. So they're opening sources.
You have to get rid
of it. No, no. It's
much, much bigger than that.
Yeah. And I know that's
not accurate, you know, it's
not a true statement at
all. It's not the way
Microsoft does stuff in the
open source community. But then
when Roslyn, you said, then
Roslyn gets open sourced and
C-sharp is not going away.
So now I don't think
I understand open source. Yeah.
So People at Microsoft and
this is just me speaking
for what I have seen.
Okay. Right. But we, we
are very, Very careful to
not want to throw something
over the fence. Right. So
open sourcing as a way
of, of dumping something. They're
always talking about that. They're
always saying we can't do
that. Like anytime someone's like,
like I want to open,
I've been trying to open
source a thing called log
parser. It's an IIS log
parcels. Now I use it
all the time. So I've
been trying to open source
that for like a year.
Wow. And yeah, I mean,
cause it would be an
obviously cool thing to open
source. The problem is every
time I bring it up
and I brought it up
last week, in fact they
S a number of folks
said, well, but who is
going to maintain that? Like,
who's going to shepherd that.
And, and I'm like, well,
you know, it doesn't really
matter. And they're like, yeah,
it didn't really matter. It
does. We don't want it
to look like we're just
trying to dump this. So,
so they, they won't open
source something unless they know
that it's going to live,
you know, beyond, you know,
a year or two after
it gets out there. So
I got a licensing problem.
Right. Cause often I could
see internal, there's a lots
of cool things that Microsoft
built internally that they didn't
let other people download. But
whenever you talk to them
about why is this open
sources? Like, you know, legal,
we just can't get through
to free the whole thing
up. No, it's not about
that. It's not about that.
Yeah. Legal is fine. Like
legal is totally like if
we can come up with
a good, a good reason.
Right. And they're like, Oh
yeah, cool. Rocket run, rock
on. But if, if you,
there's two things that we
need, we need a sponsor
internally. Right. And a sponsor
externally. Yeah. And I think
you need to, somebody needs
to commit to being the
leader of that project as
an open source project thereafter.
Yeah. Yeah, exactly. It's you're
having a child essentially. Yeah.
We almost had someone who
was willing to take it.
The other thing though, is
that people have these historical
applications that they love, like
in this case log parser,
but then they, you look
at the code and really
no one should be proud
of it. You know? Like
it's often something that was
cobbled together and then more
people used it and cobbled
some more and cobbled some
more that it's not a
thought through app. It was
a needed thing. I got
lots of software. I built
like that. Oh yeah. Well,
I mean, does blog, I
mean, Clemens, I always joke
about that, but dodgeball is
very much like that as
well. It's a great application.
People keep asking me what
blogs system I use. I
tell them and they're like,
Oh, good. I'll use that
one. I'm like, Oh, you
really don't want to use
that. You know? Like, like,
is it dead? I'm like,
it's not dead. It's just
done. Yeah. It's finished. It
works great. It's I will
continue to use it one
day. I'll upgrade to WordPress
if I want my blog
hacked on a regular basis.
Nice. And you know, but
no, you don't want to
use DAS blog. It's fine.
And it's rock solid, but
don't don't have any expectations.
You know, it's like buying
a used car and here's
what it is. It is,
you know, people should treat
more open source. Like the
fact that it's a used
car, you know what I
mean? Like, is this a
new car or used car?
Am I going to get
warranty support? Yeah, they should
be in it. You know,
we should do that. There
should be like an implied
warranty. And then at the
same, at the same time,
when people put, when people
pick open source, I tweeted
about this a couple of
months ago, how funny it
was that I saw at
corporation decided not to use
an open source project. And
when, when pressed on why
they would not use it,
they said, well, the college
student that maintains it is
not interested in working on
anymore. Ha ha Ah, you
know what I mean? Okay.
You know, I don't know
whatever bank America or whoever
it was large American corporation,
American corporation, you don't to
in turn Controls your company.
Right? Well, not even an
intern, like some, some very,
very well meaning 12 year
old Norwegian high school student
is apparently no longer interested
in taking poll requests. Therefore
you will no longer be
picking that. That doesn't make
any sense right now. It's
like crazy. And the other
way to play, this is
like what red gate did
with, with glimpse where they're
like, Hey, why don't we
just take care of the
guys who invented this project,
make sure that they are,
they can continue to work
on it still as an
open source project, no chain
of ownership at all, but
they want to roll. You
know, why wouldn't the corporation
do that? Hey, it doesn't
cost much to take care
of that person to keep
that project going open source
and being valuable for people.
And it's actually a move
of Goodwill at the same
time. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. I
think that that having a
corporate sponsor is a great
idea. Yeah. So It's a
mature thing. You know, we're,
we're inching towards actually being
a charity in humanitarian toolbox.
Now I got more, I
got more IRS paperwork coming
in. And one of the
parts of this is this
idea that we could end
up with charitable contributions in
the form of corporations taking
on specific applications that are
used by disaster relief workers.
Oh wow. That's amazing. Yeah,
It's getting there. It's it's,
it's a long line making
a charities hard and it
was not what I planned
on doing. You know, this
was just, I thought it
would be fun to every,
you know, developers like building
software that makes a difference.
And here was a little
infrastructure we could build that
could make a difference for
people, but then their right
way to do things turned
out to actually filing an
awful lot of legal paperwork
and spending hours and hours
with lawyers and the IRS
to, to really take, take
it as far as it
can go. My paperwork. It's
amazing how much paperwork there
is. I think that if
we want to do to
make it make small business
and, and charities work better,
we would have less paperwork.
I'm trying to do a
small startup right now with
a friend. And we have
spent more time with the
LLC, the code signing certificate
and the banks paperwork than
we have on the actual
Right now. And I also
appreciate that people exploit the
charitable model to do inappropriate
things. And clearly I got
nothing bad to say about
the IRS guys. Like they,
they are looking for the
right things, you know, are
you actually trying to do
good here? Or are you
trying to wash money here?
You know, like that's what
they're looking for. It's pretty
clear what they're trying to
do. Yeah. Can I also
wash my money here? Apparently?
No, it's against the rules.
It's a bummer though. Yeah.
I'm, I'm willing to, if
I can, if this actually
is the thing I've got
to do to make a
difference in the world, I'll
do it. It's not that
bad. Did you? Another thing
that came out of build
was the new update to
windows, which is the poorly
named as if we had
expected anything less a windows
8.1. Yeah. Did you, did
you get that? Yes. I
installed the six knowledge-base files
in the correct order on
my laptop. Well, to be
clear, that'll all just have,
But automatically on windows, windows
updates. So one day you'll
wake up and it'll just
be better. Yeah. But right
now for us geeks, if
you want it today, which
you can get, I mean,
it's not like it's a
terribly hard hoop to hop
through. You just have to
install one reboot, install it
XON reboot until you're done.
He did the whole thing
and did not reboot once.
I just, whenever it says
reboot, you just say later
in it, I did the
whole thing all in one
Fell swoop and then rebooted
once. Yep. And it works
just fine. I did it
on five machines. So it's
just the gist and it's
six files have to be
done the right order Again,
this is with MSDN people
only. Yeah. Yeah. But, and,
and I actually, interestingly, interesting
insight of the six files.
I didn't have to do
two of them. You already
had them, which means that
they're starting to just, you
know, prep your machine, you
know, by, by trickling out
the littles. Cause it's, you
know, this little tiny fix
prepares the system for that
little tiny fix. So I
think that it's kind of
rolling out now and we'll,
we'll see it in the
next couple of months. Great.
I had one already on
my laptop, so yeah. Same,
same sort of thing. And,
but it absolutely worked. It's
a nicer version of windows.
No two ways about it.
Yeah. Let me give it
a name. I didn't think
I was going to like
it. Like I saw the
screenshots and I was like,
what kind of weird hybrid,
you know, freaky thing is
this going to be? And
like right now I'm on
my, on my big monitor
here and I've got my
desktop apps and my store
apps running that are running,
sitting in the task bar.
Right. So this is actually
got me using the mail
app more because I can
see it now. You know
what I mean? Like I
spend most of my time
on the desktop. Yeah. Me
too. And so invariably I
live in outlook. Yeah. And
I, and I spent a
lot of time making sure
the mail app didn't annoy
me no more popups and
stuff, but yeah. I can
see actually getting there. Yeah.
For, for desktop users. I
think it's definitely an improvement.
I don't know. It's kind
of weird though, that you
see the apps that are
quote unquote running in the
background. Cause they're not really,
you know what I mean?
But it does. It gives
the impression that these apps
need to be shut down.
Right. And it's funny, I
was sitting next to someone
on a plane and I
watched him just before. It
was so funny just before
they, they, they said, okay,
we're gonna take off, turn
your phones off. And they
basically like in this kind
of ritualistic way, went into
their iPhone, then, you know,
went into the little task
manager recently used list. And
then just one by one
by one, shut down. Each
of the little apps, not
realizing that they're not shutting
anything down. Right. They're just
kind of clearing their most
recently used cache. And then
they shut the phone down.
It's like, if you want
me to just shut the
phone down, all that happens,
It's also just not necessary.
You know? So it just,
it just seemed a little
bit odd to care about
that kind of stuff. Nice.
But the point is though
that even, even as elegant
as the iOS operating system
is they still have that,
that, that sense that this
is how computers work and
they are things running in
the background that you have
to Stop or something bad's
going to happen. Well, it's,
it speaks to a level
of distrust still. Right? Exactly.
And that's a great point.
It's not distrust of Mac
or windows or whatever. It's
distrust of computers. Right. They
are doing something in the
background and we don't trust
them. So we're supposed to
go to tell them to
go away, even though we
didn't actually tell them that,
but it makes us feel
like that. Right. Exactly. What
I do, What I do
when I was overseas is
I just go into background
app refresh and you can
do this on windows as
well. And then just say,
Don't I literally, if you
turn on background app, refresh,
turn it off. Background app,
refresh on an iPhone and
all that background stuff just
stops. Nice batteries last longer.
It's just that apps don't
get updated or it's just
fine. You actually have to
wait when you flip to
one of those other apps
for it to get the
latest set of data. Exactly.
Exactly. Which for me is
invariably tripled. Oh, is that
the app that you Oh
yeah. That is the thing
that you want the most
updated information from All the
time. And that's, you know,
it's one of those cases
where the windows phone does
a really great job because
the live tile has the
one thing you need to
know about your current travel
on the tile. Yeah. They
announced was it windows phone?
8.1 is coming like any
minute, any minute next month
or so. Yeah. I'm still
carrying around my Lumia 1520.
And I I'm thinking, I
might give it another try
again. The 15, 20 the
plate. Yeah. The it's like
a giant, giant phone, right?
It's like a fablet right.
I call it a bap.
I call it a big
ass phone. I don't like
fablet you don't like big
ass ass phone. I'm afraid.
Bap means other things depending
on who you hang out
with, But okay. Alright. Yeah.
So the conversation I had
at build about the 1520
was what's douchey. You're holding
that giant phone up to
the side of your face
or using a Bluetooth headset.
Ooh. I'm going to have
to go with Bluetooth. It's
close. It's very close. The
only thing I would say
the 15, 20 lights up
the whole side of your
head when you put it
up there. So it's, it's
quite the thing. It is.
It does look very weird.
I will say that. I,
I feel, I feel conspicuous
when I'm you, when I'm
talking on a phone that
bit That's cause you are
conspicuous when you're on it
for that big, it's a
little bit of a, it's
a little bit of a
problem, but I'm still gonna,
I'm still gonna try it.
You know, if I can
get kind of the Siri
experience with Cortana, then I
think that they may have
caught up. You know what
I mean? Like now they
have reached parody and then
now the real, you know,
the fight happens and Now
things get interesting. Yeah, Yeah,
exactly. That's that's what I
think is going to happen.
Yeah. I'm totally with you.
I think it's a, it's
an interesting time. And they,
they app log is close
enough. Like they both app
stores are disasters. So I
think there are parody there.
He can't find anything. It
doesn't matter where there's a
million apps or 250,000 apps.
You still can't find anything.
Yeah. Yeah. Why people keep
saying the windows doesn't have
the apps, the apps are
they're there. You know what
I mean? That's a, that's
another, another example of a,
a myth that keeps getting
stuck. I mean, they've got,
I don't know, eight out
of 10 of the apps
that I want, Something like
that. They're missing Uber right
now. They keep promising to
Duber will show up. We
were, but you can use
a website can't you? Yeah.
She missed the main, the
main, what do you like?
The thing that's good about
Uber is knowing the cars
coming and exactly where it
is. So you can walk
out as the car pulls
up and that's what you
do. Yeah. With the website.
Oh, I see. Well, but
again, Uber is a thing
that depends on what, where
you live. If you live
in a big town that
has Uber, Uber of course
is a taxi replacement for
those many, many, many people
who are listening, who do
not have Uber. Yes. Once
you've experienced Uber, you know,
it's profound. Yeah. Well, I
mean, if you want to
go somewhere and you live
in a major city, you
just say Uber, but if
you're, you know, overseas in
the smallest town than Uber
doesn't mean anything to you.
Right. Yeah. But, and I,
it's not even your own
town that you care about.
It's when you're traveling. Yeah.
I actually, I have a
$40 Or Uber credits I've
been sitting on and I
only, I only use Uber
when I'm like in Chicago
or some major place where
I needed. Yeah. Well, and
it's, that's exactly what I
mean, you know, the vehicle
is going to be clean,
you know, it's going to
show up when it shows
up. There's no transactional friction.
Uber is addictive. It's really
enjoyable experience. Yeah. Yeah. It
sets the bar for me
on how everything I want
to do. Going forward, interacting
with a customer, looks like
what really low friction transactions
look like. Yeah. He not
to jump around too much.
Do you want to talk
a little led lighting? Cause
you and I were arguing
about this, I don't know,
a month ago. Yeah. I,
I went and I got
some led lighting. It's called
prismatic. Let me see prismatic.
P R I S M
a T I K. It
was, it was a, a
Kickstarter and it's basically four
led strips that run around
the, the back of the
monitor. Neat. And there's a,
there's a little app that
you run and then it
takes about 2% CPU. And
I think they're always working
on lowering. It depends on
how much, how big your
monitor is. Now. I have
a, I have a 30
inch monitor. So it's like,
you know, 2048 by something
big. So it's, it's looking
at the pixels on the
screen in real time and
then determining the color. So
right now I'm looking at
a picture of a field
with blue sky on and
green at the bottom. So
then I've got a green
glow out the bottom of
the monitor and a blue
at the top. And literally
as you move a, like
if I took a paint
brush and made a, a
red square, if I moved
it up to the top,
then the, it would be
would, you know, the, the
ambient light would turn red.
The, the Phillips and the
light T V was the
first thing that did this.
So these are basically open
source and do it yourself,
examples of ambient ambient light.
And it really works. Yeah.
What does it actually add
to the equation? I mean,
I like the effect and
looking at some of the
videos and things around it,
but you know, how does
it change things? Well, so
they say that it's works
on it and it helps
with eyestrain. Right? I don't
know about that, but it
does. It does give a
sense of the, what's the
word, not a halo, but
there's, there's an aura around
it. Right. There's a large,
a larger glow around the
outside of it implying that
it's somehow bigger than it
is. If you've seen those
videos of the possible versions
of the future, Xbox where
at the end of the
screen is outside the screen.
Yeah. You know, it does
give you that, that feeling
a little bit, like there's
something beyond the inside of
your, your monitor. Yeah. This
is a sense of a
larger surface. It just keeps
on going. Yeah. I like
it. I mean the only
time let me see right
now it's using, it's using
2% CPU right now. Right.
Which sounds like a lot.
And people are like, that's
unacceptable, you know, but I
mean, most of the time
Laying around smoking cigarettes and
playing poker anyway, right. We
are not bound by our
CPS. We are bound by
our Bandwidth. Yeah. Well, I've
started to get a little
bit more of a, of
a cynical attitude about my
CPU. Like if it's not
working, then what is, what
do I have it for?
You know what I mean?
Right. And apparently I have
four of them. So clearly
some of them are goofing
off, give them some to
do Good. 12 logical CPS,
six physical. So I'm willing
to give, you know, a
tiny percentage of one of
those CPS, just because I
liked the effect and for
a dark office, like mine,
it really, really adds a
lot. That's nice. Yeah. I
like it. And then I
run that F Lux. Do
you use this flux? No.
You don't know about this.
Oh, wow. Okay. So flux,
I don't know if it's
flux or efflux, it's F
dot Lux Lux, like for
like light. Right. And you
can get it at, just
get flux.com and basically it's
free software that changes the
color of the computer's display
to adapt to the time
of the day is what
warms it at night. And
it makes it like sunlight
during the day. So if
you ever trying to get
the color, what do you
call it? The color temperature,
correct? It knows where you
are. It looks at the,
you know, it figures out
your Latin lawn and location
or you can tell it
and then it will rise
and set with the sun.
That's awesome. Yeah. So you
have a bright blue coat.
Know what I mean, blue?
I mean, the whites are
blue during the day and
then a more warmer kind
of a sun, you know,
sunrise, sunset color at night.
Yeah. Orange, yellow. And it's
lovely because at night you
want that it's less, it's
less bright on your eyes
if you're doing it A
long time on my wind
seven at machine, my background
was a map of the
world with the day, night
line. Correct. And the clouds
accurate. Yeah. Because you know,
I'm always calling all over
the planet. So just being
at a glance and say,
Hey, I'm calling Amsterdam. Oh,
it's dark there it's night
there. You know? And in
fact, being able to see
the clouds over to, he
goes, it's probably raining there
too. Yeah, Absolutely. I love
I. What was that app
called? It used to run
in the background. It covered
up your desktop. It was
there. The whole backer. Yeah.
It doesn't work on wind
eight. So I've had to
give it up, but it,
yeah, I can't remember the
name of it now. And
it makes me sad. My
favorite thing on earth, it
was a dynamic earth. Wallpaper's
like a dynamic earth wallpaper.
And my favorite thing was
every, so often the satellites
capture some, a photo of
something reentering. So you get
this, you get this white
streak across the ocean and
you do, and you could
say, you know, I'd walk
up. The screen would come
up and you're like, Hey,
something reentered today. Well, here,
there's an application here called
earth view from, from a
desk soft. And it looks
like it will work on
windows eight. They just added
windows eight support and it
will change. It will update
the, so it may not
be dynamic, but it's at
least going to update and
they've got a, a free
download here. So I'm gonna
check that out. Or if
you have This sure. Seems
like the same one. Yeah.
And maybe they've now added
when it support. It looks
like they've got Dave unite
view cloud cities. So it's,
you know, it's, it's dynamic
ish and they'll update it
every, you know, every X
minutes. Nice. So that, that
might work. And then they've
also got, it looks like
multiple monitors support. So that's
a desk, soft.com. I'm actually
installing it right now. I
love that. You just go
for it. I mean, it
seems like a good idea,
right? Yeah. So why not?
Right here we go. Start
earth view and go. Okay.
And it's going to go
on it's. So it's running
in the background, seasonal extracting
and preparing image data re
Oh wow. Look at this
rescaling clouds. So this thing
is actually rendering this locally
and then looking at weather
data, generating cloud map, and
then, Oh, wow. Look at
that. Yeah. This is lovely.
Okay. This wins Sold. Sold.
Yes. Yeah. It's got the,
this is nice. Cause it's
got the lights underneath, you
know, where the cities are.
Sure. Yeah. I like that.
I like that. Oh wow.
It is other there's other
high detailed maps you can
download. Yep. Alright. This wins.
See, I love that stuff.
Yeah. Me too. I mean,
I like the idea that
down in my basement is
a machine that's connecting me
to the world in a
lot of different ways. Yeah,
absolutely. They be ups. My
perception of what's going on
in the world, you know?
Yes. It is. It's important
to remember how big it
is. Like we were talking
about why we can't find
this airplane. Yes. And you
know, I don't know anything
about, you know, airplanes or
aviation, you know, I just
know that the more that
I travel, the more that
I realize that it is
a big freaking World, it's
a very, very big pot.
The chances are the reason
that we cannot find this
thing is that the ocean
is bigger than anyone. Anyone
realizes it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
We completely forget. And now
arguably aircraft make that worse.
You know, you in a
day did a journey that
a hundred years ago was
months and 200 years ago
was years. Oh yeah. Oh
yeah. People, people don't realize
like we have more so
and so that the average
middle class person has more
power now than like, you
know, Henry the eighth. Sure.
You know what I mean?
If you think about like
the things that were, you
know, like, you know, bring
me some food, you know,
like stuff like that, or,
you know, you eat it,
you can eat pretty much
anything you want whenever you
want, you just go get
it. Yeah. And it's, and
it represents a tiny fraction
of your income. Yeah. It's
just the exact deal. It's
amazing. Yeah. It is. It
is astonishing, but how far
we've come and so little
time, but yeah. And I'm,
and I feel for the
people who are her missile
missing loved ones, but I'm
pretty sure that we're not
going to find that airplane.
Do you think that it
is just landed in the
ocean and it just, Yeah.
I'd probably broken up the
chances that had actually land
needs it's pieces in the,
in the bottom of the
Indian ocean, the, the analysis
that came out of Inmarsat
of how they looked at
the raw telemetry from those
engines. So they really use
the Doppler shift to figure
out almost exactly it's course
and the partial record that
originally didn't see until he
looked at the raw data.
That means it was, it
was actually trying to negotiate
a penguin. It went offline
and makes it pretty clear
about where it went down.
It just took time to
figure all that out. So
you think that there's going
to have to go look
for it? Yes. But you
know, the reality is that
it's been a month, the,
the pingers aren't going to
be working much. They probably
not working. Now, if they're
working, you know, They implied
that they got a ping
and it might, they may
have like a day or
two of paying loan. Yeah.
Well the Chinese said they
picked up a ping. Oh
really? Yeah. So nobody's else
has been able to reproduce
it yet, but we'll see,
that is a very oblique
part of the ocean. It
is not an easy environment
to operate in. So this
is a pretty remote. Someone
said that it's about the
size of all of the
United States. So, you know, imagine
the United States completely, you know,
flat and empty and say,
we've lost a plane. It's
somewhere in this general area.
Right. And it's not flat
and empty. It is windy
and massive waves and very
violent in the thing you
dropped is moving. Right. Exactly.
And by the way, we're
not talking about a flat
two dimensional plane. Let's go
ahead and make it 200
meters deep. Yeah. Well it's
3000 meters deep. It's it's
worse. Oh, it is three
very deep ocean. There is
a very, very deep and
largely unexplored. There's nothing down
there. That's why they keep
drying squids down there. Oh,
that was a giant squids.
Yeah. Aliens are there. That's
right. It's very deep oceans.
That's also, that's the big
fault lines for the massive
earthquakes. Like it's theirs. It's
not a good place. That's
amazing. That's kind of a
downer to end on. Yeah.
Sorry about that. I'm just
like, yeah. Oh, well, you
know, what I do appreciate
is that many countries have
come together with, I mean,
the best submarines in the
world are down there right
now to try and actually
find it. If there's any
chance at all, this is
not a halfhearted move. The
British sent down one of
the thresher classes. There's, there's
three different side scanning systems
that this is the, you
know, this is the kind
of skillset that found the
Titanic and the Bismark. And
it's like the, it's not
going to be a good
story, but at least we
might get some closure. Yeah.
That's a good point. The
fact that no, one's talked
about how much it's going
to cost or who's paying
for it. It's just, it's
getting done. That is heartening
aspect of it. The Australian
Navy, the us Navy, the
Indian Navy, like there's a
tremendous number of ships and
aircraft and huge numbers of
people. And yeah, it's true.
Just to try and get
an answer. Yeah, absolutely. Well,
thanks for minutia. Hang with
me again, Richard. I appreciate
it. Always. My pleasure. My
friend. We'll do this again.
I'm sure. All right. This
has been another episode. The
cancer we'll see you again
next week.